# Configuration

{% hint style="info" %}
More to come in the future :)\
Check the web-interface. For almost all settings, there are already tool tips available when you hover over it.
{% endhint %}

## Ways to Configure

There are three options to configure DLSE and change settings:

* Web-Interface
*   REST-API using JSON

    Write your own tools using Python or any other language by following the examples given in the [Commercial Support Suite](https://github.com/DroneBridge/DLSECommercialSupportSuite)
* MAVLink Parameter Protocol (using your GCS) - does not support text parameters

## Configuration Parameters

<table><thead><tr><th width="182">Parameter</th><th width="158">Example Value</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>esp32_mode</td><td>2</td><td>1=WiFi AP Mode <br>2=WiFi Client Mode</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_chan</td><td>11</td><td>WiFi Channel used by WiFi AP Mode to host the AP</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_en_gn</td><td>1</td><td>1 means 802.11b/g/n/ac/ax support<br>0 means to only use 802.11b</td></tr><tr><td>baud</td><td>115200</td><td>UART baud rate</td></tr><tr><td>gpio_tx</td><td>16</td><td>UART TX GPIO</td></tr><tr><td>gpio_rx</td><td>17</td><td>UART RX GPIO</td></tr><tr><td>gpio_rts</td><td>0</td><td>UART RTS GPIO (if same as CTS then flow control is disabled)</td></tr><tr><td>gpio_cts</td><td>0</td><td>UART CTS GPIO (if same as CTS then flow control is disabled)</td></tr><tr><td>rts_thresh</td><td>127</td><td>Flow Control RTS Threshold - keep to default</td></tr><tr><td>proto</td><td>4</td><td>4=MAVLink - 5=Transparent</td></tr><tr><td>trans_pack_size</td><td>576</td><td>Maximum packet size in MAVLink or Transparent mode</td></tr><tr><td>serial_timeout</td><td>50</td><td>UART read timeout, when reached the packet will be sent out no matter its size</td></tr><tr><td>ltm_per_packet</td><td>2</td><td>LEGACY</td></tr><tr><td>radio_dis_onarm</td><td>0</td><td>LEGACY</td></tr><tr><td>udp_client_port</td><td>0</td><td>Custom UDP Client manually added by user -> port number</td></tr><tr><td>rep_rssi_dbm</td><td>1</td><td>Set to 1 to report RSSI in dbm as part of Radio Status - set 0 to scale 0-100</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_dis_udpdet</td><td>0</td><td>Disable auto-detection of UDP clients if set to 1. Only manually added clients will be served</td></tr><tr><td>udp_local_port</td><td>14635</td><td>Local port on the ESP32 used to send out UDP packets to the GCS</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_brcst_nudp</td><td>1</td><td>Set to 1 to enable broadcasting of UDP MAVLink msgs if no UDP client is known. Allows auto-detection by the GCS</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_brcst_port</td><td>14630</td><td>Remote port (on the GCS - e.g. Skybrush) to which the ESP32 will send UDP broadcast messages in case no known UDP client exists</td></tr><tr><td>show_det_flash</td><td>1</td><td>Set to 1 to enable the determination of command to FC to go into bootloader mode. ESP32 will enable transparent mode to allow FC OTA Updates</td></tr><tr><td>show_ap_fail_to</td><td>90000</td><td>Timeout in milliseconds for how long the ESP32 will try to connect to the AP in WiFi Client mode until it finally opens a failsafe AP of ist own. Set to 0 to wait indefinitely</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_en_hb</td><td>1</td><td>When disabled (0) a GCS is likely not detecting the ESP32 as a MAVLink component. The ESP32 still accepts MAVLink messages addressed to it. In sleep mode fake MAVLink heartbeats from the FC will always be generated.</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_en</td><td>1</td><td>Set to 1 to enable power management of the FC by the ESP32</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_gpio</td><td>10</td><td>The ESP32 will use this GPIO to send the on/off command to an external power control circuit</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_logic</td><td>0</td><td>0 = Active Low - 1 = Active High - Used for power management signal generation</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_pulse_l</td><td>400</td><td>Specify the duration of the pulse sent by the power control pin to indicate a on/off power command. Set to 0 in case you do use a static high/low signal.</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_qu_gpio</td><td>0</td><td>The ESP32 will use this GPIO to check the power state of the FC. It expects a high signal on the pin in case the FC is powered. Set to 0 in case you do not have such a GPIO - the ESP32 will then use the telemetry stream (MAVLink packets parsing required - not supported in transparent mode) to derive the power state of the flight controller.</td></tr><tr><td>radio_ant_selec</td><td>0</td><td>0=default antenna, <br>1=external secondary antenna (external antenna switch required). Works with SeeedStudio ESP32C6.<br>2=antenna diversity</td></tr><tr><td>radio_ant_sw</td><td>0</td><td>GPIO to enable the external antenna switch circuit by pull in GPIO to 0. Set to 0 if no such thing is needed.<br>Set to 14 for the SeeedStudio ESP32C6.</td></tr><tr><td>radio_ant_en</td><td>0</td><td>GPIO to enable external antenna switch circuit by pull in GPIO to 0. <br>Set to 0 if no such thing is needed.<br>Set to 3 for the SeeedStudio ESP32C6.</td></tr><tr><td>show_pm_en_emcy</td><td>1</td><td>Set to 1 and the ESP32 will <em><strong>not</strong></em> perform an "is-armed" check before triggering the power control pin. This will lead the drone to power off/sleep regardless of its state (may fall out of the sky if flying).<br>If set to 1 the ESP32 will support the Skybrush Live "Power Off" command even during flight.</td></tr><tr><td>ssid</td><td>DroneBridgeSSID</td><td>SSID of remote AP in WiFi Client Mode</td></tr><tr><td>ssid_ap</td><td>DroneBridgeAPSSID</td><td>SSID of ESP32 AP in WiFi AP Mode</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_pass</td><td>WIFIPASSWORD</td><td>Password of remote AP in WiFi Client Mode</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_pass_ap</td><td>WIFIPASSWORD</td><td>Password of ESP32 AP in WiFi AP Mode</td></tr><tr><td>ap_ip</td><td>192.168.2.1</td><td>IP of ESP32 in Wifi Access Point Mode</td></tr><tr><td>ip_sta</td><td>192.168.1.21</td><td>Static IP config: Static IP</td></tr><tr><td>ip_sta_gw</td><td>192.168.1.1</td><td>Static IP config: Gateway</td></tr><tr><td>ip_sta_netmsk</td><td>255.255.255.0</td><td>Static IP config: Netmask</td></tr><tr><td>udp_client_ip</td><td></td><td>Custom UDP Client manually added by user ->IP</td></tr><tr><td>wifi_hostname</td><td>ESP21</td><td>Hostname of the ESP32 - Will be used as SSID for failsafe AP</td></tr></tbody></table>
